
Form 461
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Limitation on Business Losses
Attach to your tax return.
Go to www.irs.gov/Form461 for instructions and the latest information.
OMB No. 1545-2283
2024
Attachment
Sequence No. 64
Name(s) shown on return Identifying number
Part I Total Income/Loss Items
See instructions if you are filing a tax return other than Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
1 Reserved for future use . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
2 Enter amount from Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
3 Enter amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 7. See instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
4 Enter amount from Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
5 Enter amount from Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
6 Enter amount from Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
7 Reserved for future use . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
8 Enter other income, gain, or losses from a trade or business not reported on lines 1 through 7 . . . 8
9 Combine lines 1 through 8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9

Part II Adjustment for Amounts Not Attributable to Trade or Business

10 Enter any income or gain reported on lines 1 through 8 that is not attributable to a trade or business . 10
11 Enter any losses or deductions reported on lines 1 through 8 that are not attributable to a trade or
business. See instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
12 Subtract line 11 from line 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Part III Limitation on Losses
13 If line 12 is a negative number, enter it here as a positive number. If line 12 is a positive number, enter it
here as a negative number . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
14 Add lines 9 and 13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
15 Enter the maximum "excess business loss" according to irc section 461(l)(3) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
16 Add lines 14 and 15. If less than zero, enter the amount from line 16 as a positive number on Schedule
1 (Form 1040), line 8p. See instructions if you are filing a tax return other than a Form 1040 or 1040-SR 16
For Privacy Act and Paperwork Reduction Act Notice, see the separate instructions. Cat. No. 16654I Form 461 (2024)



Instructions for Form 461 (2024)
Limitation on Business Losses

Section references are to the Internal Revenue Code unless otherwise noted.

2024
General Instructions
Future Developments

Go to IRS.gov/Form461 for the latest information about Form 461 and its instructions.
What’s New

There are new filing rules for 2024. See Who Must File in the instructions below. Please follow the new filing rules where they supersede those printed on the form.
Reminders

Limitation on excess business losses of noncorporate taxpayers.

The disallowance of excess business losses is effective for tax years beginning after 2020 and before 2029.

Excess business losses.

Excess business losses are now computed without regard to any deduction allowed under section 172 or 199A and without regard to any deductions, gross income, or gains attributable to any trade or business of performing services as an employee.

Treatment of capital gains and losses.

Losses from sales or exchanges of capital assets are not included in the calculation of the total deductions from your trades or businesses.

Gains from sales or exchanges of capital assets should not exceed the lesser of capital gain net income limited to only gains and losses attributable to a trade or business, or capital gain net income.
Purpose of Form

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act limited the amount of losses from the trades or businesses of noncorporate taxpayers that the taxpayers can claim each year. Taxpayers can’t deduct an excess business loss (see Definitions, later) in the current year. However, the excess business loss is treated as a net operating loss (NOL) carryover for subsequent years. See Form 172, Net Operating Losses (NOLs) for Individuals, Estates, and Trusts, for more information on NOL carryovers. Use Form 461 to figure the excess business loss. See Who Must File and the instructions for Line 16 , later, to find where to report the excess business loss on your return.
Who Must File

File Form 461 if you’re a noncorporate taxpayer (including a trust subject to tax under section 511) and either (i) your net losses from all of your trades or businesses are more than $305,000 ($610,000 for taxpayers filing a joint return), or (ii) you would report a loss of more than $152,500 on any one of Form 461, lines 1 through 8.

See Definitions, later. Attach Form 461 to the applicable tax return you file.

    Form 1040, U.S. Individual Income Tax Return.

    Form 1040-SR, U.S. Income Tax Return for Seniors.

    Form 1040-NR, U.S. Nonresident Alien Income Tax Return.

    Form 1041, U.S. Income Tax Return for Estates and Trusts.

    Form 1041-QFT, U.S. Income Tax Return for Qualified Funeral Trusts.

    Form 1041-N, U.S. Income Tax Return for Electing Alaska Native Settlement Trusts.

    Form 990-T, Exempt Organization Business Income Tax Return (and proxy tax under section 6033(e)).

Definitions

Excess business loss.

An excess business loss is the amount by which the total deductions (computed without regard to any deduction allowed under section 172 or 199A) from your trades or businesses are more than your total gross income or gains from your trades or businesses, plus the threshold amount. Such excess losses should be determined without regard to any deductions, gross income, or gains attributable to any trade or business of performing services of an employee.

Threshold amount.

For 2024, the threshold amount is $305,000 ($610,000 for taxpayers filing a joint return). These amounts are indexed for inflation.

Treatment of capital gains and losses.

Losses from sales or exchanges of capital assets are not included in the calculation of the total deductions from your trades or businesses.

Gains from the sales or exchanges of capital assets should not exceed the lesser of:

    Capital gain net income limited to only gains and losses attributable to a trade or business, or

    Capital gain net income.

Trade or business.

An activity qualifies as a trade or business if your primary purpose for engaging in the activity is for income or profit and you’re involved in the activity with continuity and regularity. The facts and circumstances of each case determine if an activity is a trade or business. The regularity of activities and transactions and the production of income are important elements. You don’t need to actually make a profit to be in a trade or business as long as you have a profit motive. However, you do need to make ongoing efforts to further the interests of your business.
Note.

If you own an interest in a partnership or S corporation, the trade or business determination is made at that entity's level.

Ordering Rules

First, apply the at-risk rules; next, apply the passive activity loss rules; and then apply the excess business loss rules. See the instructions for Form 6198 at IRS.gov/Form6198. Also, see Pub. 925, available at IRS.gov/Pub925.

Farming losses.

Taxpayers with losses from a farming business must apply the excess business loss limitation before carrying any NOLs back 2 years. See the Instructions for Form 172.

Farming and nonfarming losses.

If you incur both farming and nonfarming business losses that are more than the threshold amount (see Definitions, earlier), you must allocate the threshold amount first to the farming losses to the extent you have an NOL.
Transition Rules

If you had losses or deductions that were limited under other provisions of the Internal Revenue Code in prior tax years, those losses or deductions are included in figuring the amount, if any, of your excess business loss in the current year.
Additional Information

See the following publications for more information about the items in these instructions.

    Pub. 225, Farmer’s Tax Guide.

    Pub. 925, Passive Activity and At-Risk Rules.

Specific Instructions

Joint returns.

Complete one Form 461 containing all the information for both spouses.

Amended returns.

Attach Form 461 to any applicable amended returns.
Part I—Total Income/Loss Items

Use Part I to report all the income and losses reflected on your applicable tax return. If you’re filing a return other than Form 1040 or 1040-SR, see the instructions below for the specific line that’s an equivalent to the line on Form 1040 or 1040-SR. If the line instructions don’t reference a form listed under Who Must File, earlier, then it’s not applicable.
Line 1

Leave line 1 blank.
Line 2

Enter any business income or loss reported on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 3, or Form 1041, line 3.
Line 3

Enter any capital gains or losses reported on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 7; Form 1040-NR, line 7; Form 1041, line 4; Form 1041-QFT, Part II, line 3; or Form 1041-N, Part II, line 3.

Losses from sales or exchanges of capital assets are not included in the calculation of the total deductions from your trades or businesses. So any such amounts included here in line 3 should be added back on line 11 to remove them from the computation.

Gains from the sales or exchanges of capital assets should not exceed the lesser of capital gain net income limited to only gains and losses attributable to a trade or business, or capital gain net income. So any capital gains not attributable to your trade or business that are included here in line 3 should be added back on line 10 to remove them from the computation.
Line 4

Enter any other gains or losses reported on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 4; Form 1041, line 7; Form 1041-QFT, Part II, line 4; or Form 1041-N, Part II, line 4.
Line 5

Enter any supplemental income or loss reported on a Schedule E, such as income from rental real estate, royalties, partnerships, S corporations, estates, trusts, REMICs, etc. This is reported on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 5; Form 1041, line 5; Form 1041-QFT, Part II, line 4; or Form 1041-N, Part II, line 4.
Line 6

Enter any farm income or loss reported on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 6; Form 1041, line 6; Form 1041-QFT, Part II, line 4; or Form 1041-N, Part II, line 4.
Line 7

Leave line 7 blank.
Line 8

Enter any other trade or business income, gain, or loss not reported on lines 1 through 7 that you reported on your tax return.
Line 9

Combine all the entries from lines 1 through 8 on line 9. The resulting figure can be a positive or negative number.
Part II—Adjustment for Amounts not Attributable to Trade or Business

Use Part II to report the income, gain, or loss from your tax return that’s not from a trade or business. The information will then be used to figure the excess business loss. See Definitions, earlier.
Line 10

Enter the combined amount of income or gain you reported on lines 1 through 8 above that’s not from a trade or business. See Definitions, earlier. If you filed a tax return other than a Form 1040, see the specific line references for the tax return in the specific line instructions in Part l, earlier.
Line 11

Enter the combined amount of losses or deductions you reported on lines 1 through 8 above that’s not from a trade or business. See the definition of a trade or business, earlier. If you filed a tax return other than a Form 1040, see the specific line references for the tax return in the specific line instructions in Part l, earlier.

This is an Image: caution.gifAlthough losses and deductions are usually entered as negative figures on other forms or worksheets, enter them as a positive figure on this line.

Losses from sales or exchanges of capital assets are not included in the calculation of trade or business deduction. Such amounts included on line 3 should be added back here to remove it from the computation.
Line 12

Subtract line 11 from line 10. The resulting figure is your gain or loss that’s not from a trade or business. Use this amount in Part III to figure your excess business loss. See Definitions, earlier.
Part III—Limitation on Losses

Use Part III to apply the threshold limitation and figure the excess business loss. See Definitions, earlier.
Line 14

Add lines 9 and 13. The resulting figure can be a positive or negative number.
Line 16

If the resulting figure on this line is a negative amount, then it’s your excess business loss. See Definitions, earlier. Although it’s a loss, you will report the excess business loss adjustment as a positive number on the “Other income” line on your tax return and enter “ELA” on the dotted line. For Schedule 1 (Form 1040), enter any excess business loss adjustment on line 8p. The “Other income” lines are located on the following lines based on the type of tax return.

    Form 1041, line 8.

    Form 1041-QFT, Part II, line 4.

    Form 1041-N, Part II, line 4.

    Schedule A (Form 990-T), Part I, line 12 (applicable to trusts only).

This is an Image: files.gifYou’ll need to keep a record of your excess business loss from each tax year because it’s treated as an NOL carryover for subsequent taxable years. See Form 172, Net Operating Losses (NOLs) for Individuals, Estates, and Trusts, for more information on NOL carryovers and reporting NOLs on future tax year returns.
Instructions for Form 461 - Notices
Privacy Act and Paperwork Reduction Act Notice.

We ask for the information on this form to carry out the Internal Revenue laws of the United States. We need this information to ensure that you’re complying with these laws and to allow us to figure and collect the right amount of tax. Our legal right to ask for the information requested on this form is sections 6001, 6011, 6012(a), and 6109 and their regulations. If you don’t provide this information, or you provide incomplete or false information, you may be subject to penalties.

You’re not required to provide the information requested on a form that’s subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act unless the form displays a valid OMB control number. Books or records relating to a form or its instructions must be retained as long as their contents may become material in the administration of any Internal Revenue law. Generally, tax returns and return information are confidential, as required by section 6103. However, we may give this information to the Department of Justice for civil and criminal litigation, and to cities, states, the District of Columbia, and U.S. commonwealths and territories to carry out their tax laws. We may also disclose this information to other countries under a tax treaty, to federal and state agencies to enforce federal nontax criminal laws, or to federal law enforcement and intelligence agencies to combat terrorism.

The time needed to complete and file this form will vary depending on individual circumstances. The estimated burden for individual and business taxpayers filing this form is approved under OMB control numbers 1545-0074 and 1545-0123 and is included in the estimates shown in the instructions for their individual and business income tax return. The estimated burden for all other taxpayers who file this form is shown below.

Preparing the form. . . . . . . . 23 min.

If you have suggestions for making this form simpler, we would be happy to hear from you. See the instructions for your income tax return.


Sec. 461 General rule for taxable year of deduction
https://www.taxnotes.com/research/federal/usc26/461
https://www.taxnotes.com/research/federal/usc26/172

(a) General rule. The amount of any deduction or credit allowed by this subtitle shall be taken for the taxable year which is the proper taxable year under the method of accounting used in computing taxable income.

(b) Special rule in case of death. In the case of the death of a taxpayer whose taxable income is computed under an accrual method of accounting, any amount accrued as a deduction or credit only by reason of the death of the taxpayer shall not be allowed in computing taxable income for the period in which falls the date of the taxpayer's death.

(c) Accrual of real property taxes.

(1) In general. If the taxable income is computed under an accrual method of accounting, then, at the election of the taxpayer, any real property tax which is related to a definite period of time shall be accrued ratably over that period.

(2) When election may be made.

(A) Without consent. A taxpayer may, without the consent of the Secretary, make an election under this subsection for his first taxable year in which he incurs real property taxes. Such an election shall be made not later than the time prescribed by law for filing the return for such year (including extensions thereof).

(B) With consent. A taxpayer may, with the consent of the Secretary, make an election under this subsection at any time.

(d) Limitation on acceleration of accrual of taxes.

(1) General rule. In the case of a taxpayer whose taxable income is computed under an accrual method of accounting, to the extent that the time for accruing taxes is earlier than it would be but for any action of any taxing jurisdiction taken after December 31, 1960, then, under regulations prescribed by the Secretary, such taxes shall be treated as accruing at the time they would have accrued but for such action by such taxing jurisdiction.

(2) Limitation. Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary, paragraph (1) shall be inapplicable to any item of tax to the extent that its application would (but for this paragraph) prevent all persons (including successors in interest) from ever taking such item into account.

(e) Dividends or interest paid on certain deposits or withdrawable accounts. Except as provided in regulations prescribed by the Secretary, amounts paid to, or credited to the accounts of, depositors or holders of accounts as dividends or interest on their deposits or withdrawable accounts (if such amounts paid or credited are withdrawable on demand subject only to customary notice to withdraw) by a mutual savings bank not having capital stock represented by shares, a domestic building and loan association, or a cooperative bank shall not be allowed as a deduction for the taxable year to the extent such amounts are paid or credited for periods representing more than 12 months. Any such amount not allowed as a deduction as the result of the application of the preceding sentence shall be allowed as a deduction for such other taxable year as the Secretary determines to be consistent with the preceding sentence.

(f) Contested liabilities. If--

(1) the taxpayer contests an asserted liability,

(2) the taxpayer transfers money or other property to provide for the satisfaction of the asserted liability,

(3) the contest with respect to the asserted liability exists after the time of the transfer, and

(4) but for the fact that the asserted liability is contested, a deduction would be allowed for the taxable year of the transfer (or for an earlier taxable year) determined after application of subsection (h),

then the deduction shall be allowed for the taxable year of the transfer. This subsection shall not apply in respect of the deduction for income, war profits, and excess profits taxes imposed by the authority of any foreign country or possession of the United States.

(g) Prepaid interest.

(1) In general. If the taxable income of the taxpayer is computed under the cash receipts and disbursements method of accounting, interest paid by the taxpayer which, under regulations prescribed by the Secretary, is properly allocable to any period--

(A) with respect to which the interest represents a charge for the use or forbearance of money, and

(B) which is after the close of the taxable year in which paid,

shall be charged to capital account and shall be treated as paid in the period to which so allocable.

(2) Exception. This subsection shall not apply to points paid in respect of any indebtedness incurred in connection with the purchase or improvement of, and secured by, the principal residence of the taxpayer to the extent that, under regulations prescribed by the Secretary, such payment of points is an established business practice in the area in which such indebtedness is incurred, and the amount of such payment does not exceed the amount generally charged in such area.

(h) Certain liabilities not incurred before economic performance.

(1) In general. For purposes of this title, in determining whether an amount has been incurred with respect to any item during any taxable year, the all events test shall not be treated as met any earlier than when economic performance with respect to such item occurs.

(2) Time when economic performance occurs. Except as provided in regulations prescribed by the Secretary, the time when economic performance occurs shall be determined under the following principles:

(A) Services and property provided to the taxpayer. If the liability of the taxpayer arises out of--

(i) the providing of services to the taxpayer by another person, economic performance occurs as such person provides such services,

(ii) the providing of property to the taxpayer by another person, economic performance occurs as the person provides such property, or

(iii) the use of property by the taxpayer, economic performance occurs as the taxpayer uses such property.

(B) Services and property provided by the taxpayer. If the liability of the taxpayer requires the taxpayer to provide property or services, economic performance occurs as the taxpayer provides such property or services.

(C) Workers compensation and tort liabilities of the taxpayer. If the liability of the taxpayer requires a payment to another person and--

(i) arises under any workers compensation act, or

(ii) arises out of any tort,

economic performance occurs as the payments to such person are made. Subparagraphs (A) and (B) shall not apply to any liability described in the preceding sentence.

(D) Other items. In the case of any other liability of the taxpayer, economic performance occurs at the time determined under regulations prescribed by the Secretary.

(3) Exception for certain recurring items.

(A) In general. Notwithstanding paragraph (1) an item shall be treated as incurred during any taxable year if--

(i) the all events test with respect to such item is met during such taxable year (determined without regard to paragraph (1)),

(ii) economic performance with respect to such item occurs within the shorter of--

(I) a reasonable period after the close of such taxable year, or

(II) 8 1/2 months after the close of such taxable year,

(iii) such item is recurring in nature and the taxpayer consistently treats items of such kind as incurred in the taxable year in which the requirements of clause (i) are met, and

(iv) either--

(I) such item is not a material item, or

(II) the accrual of such item in the taxable year in which the requirements of clause (i) are met results in a more proper match against income than accruing such item in the taxable year in which economic performance occurs.

(B) Financial statements considered under subparagraph (A)(iv). In making a determination under subparagraph (A)(iv), the treatment of such item on financial statements shall be taken into account.

(C) Paragraph not to apply to workers compensation and tort liabilities. This paragraph shall not apply to any item described in subparagraph (C) of paragraph (2).

(4) All events test. For purposes of this subsection, the all events test is met with respect to any item if all events have occurred which determine the fact of liability and the amount of such liability can be determined with reasonable accuracy.

(5) Subsection not to apply to certain items. This subsection shall not apply to any item for which a deduction is allowable under a provision of this title which specifically provides for a deduction for a reserve for estimated expenses.

(i)

Special rules for tax shelters.

(1) Recurring item exception not to apply. In the case of a tax shelter, economic performance shall be determined without regard to paragraph (3) of subsection (h).

(2) Special rule for spudding of oil or gas wells.

(A) In general. In the case of a tax shelter, economic performance with respect to amounts paid during the taxable year for drilling an oil or gas well shall be treated as having occurred within a taxable year if drilling of the well commences before the close of the 90th day after the close of the taxable year.

(B) Deduction limited to cash basis.

(i) Tax shelter partnerships. In the case of a tax shelter which is a partnership, in applying section 704(d) to a deduction or loss for any taxable year attributable to an item which is deductible by reason of subparagraph (A), the term "cash basis" shall be substituted for the term "adjusted basis".

(ii) Other tax shelters. Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary, in the case of a tax shelter other than a partnership, the aggregate amount of the deductions allowable by reason of subparagraph (A) for any taxable year shall be limited in a manner similar to the limitation under clause (i).

(C) Cash basis defined. For purposes of subparagraph (B), a partner's cash basis in a partnership shall be equal to the adjusted basis of such partner's interest in the partnership, determined without regard to--

(i) any liability of the partnership, and

(ii) any amount borrowed by the partner with respect to such partnership which--

(I) was arranged by the partnership or by any person who participated in the organization, sale, or management of the partnership (or any person related to such person within the meaning of section 465(b)(3)(C)), or

(II) was secured by any asset of the partnership.

(3) Tax shelter defined. For purposes of this subsection, the term "tax shelter" means--

(A) any enterprise (other than a C corporation) if at any time interests in such enterprise have been offered for sale in any offering required to be registered with any Federal or State agency having the authority to regulate the offering of securities for sale,

(B) any syndicate (within the meaning of section 1256(e)(3)(B)), and

(C)

any tax shelter (as defined in section 6662(d)(2)(C)(ii)).

(4)

Special rules for farming. In the case of the trade or business of farming (as defined in section 464(e)), in determining whether an entity is a tax shelter, the definition of farming syndicate in subsection (k) shall be substituted for subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (3).

(5) Economic performance. For purposes of this subsection, the term "economic performance" has the meaning given such term by subsection (h).

(j)

Limitation on excess farm losses of certain taxpayers.

(1) Limitation. If a taxpayer other than a C corporation receives any applicable subsidy for any taxable year, any excess farm loss of the taxpayer for the taxable year shall not be allowed.

(2) Disallowed loss carried to next taxable year. Any loss which is disallowed under paragraph (1) shall be treated as a deduction of the taxpayer attributable to farming businesses in the next taxable year.

(3) Applicable subsidy. For purposes of this subsection, the term "applicable subsidy" means--

(A) any direct or counter-cyclical payment under title I of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008, or any payment elected to be received in lieu of any such payment, or

(B) any Commodity Credit Corporation loan.

(4) Excess farm loss. For purposes of this subsection--

(A) In general. The term "excess farm loss" means the excess of--

(i) the aggregate deductions of the taxpayer for the taxable year which are attributable to farming businesses of such taxpayer (determined without regard to whether or not such deductions are disallowed for such taxable year under paragraph (1)), over

(ii) the sum of--

(I) the aggregate gross income or gain of such taxpayer for the taxable year which is attributable to such farming businesses, plus

(II) the threshold amount for the taxable year.

(B) Threshold amount.

(i) In general. The term "threshold amount" means, with respect to any taxable year, the greater of--

(I) $300,000 ($150,000 in the case of married individuals filing separately), or

(II) the excess (if any) of the aggregate amounts described in subparagraph (A)(ii)(I) for the 5-consecutive taxable year period preceding the taxable year over the aggregate amounts described in subparagraph (A)(i) for such period.

(ii) Special rules for determining aggregate amounts. For purposes of clause (i)(II)--

(I) notwithstanding the disregard in subparagraph (A)(i) of any disallowance under paragraph (1), in the case of any loss which is carried forward under paragraph (2) from any taxable year, such loss (or any portion thereof) shall be taken into account for the first taxable year in which a deduction for such loss (or portion) is not disallowed by reason of this subsection, and

(II) the Secretary shall prescribe rules for the computation of the aggregate amounts described in such clause in cases where the filing status of the taxpayer is not the same for the taxable year and each of the taxable years in the period described in such clause.

(C) Farming business.

(i) In general. The term "farming business" has the meaning given such term in section 263A(e)(4).

(ii) Certain trades and businesses included. If, without regard to this clause, a taxpayer is engaged in a farming business with respect to any agricultural or horticultural commodity--

(I) the term "farming business" shall include any trade or business of the taxpayer of the processing of such commodity (without regard to whether the processing is incidental to the growing, raising, or harvesting of such commodity), and

(II) if the taxpayer is a member of a cooperative to which subchapter T applies, any trade or business of the cooperative described in subclause (I) shall be treated as the trade or business of the taxpayer.

(D) Certain losses disregarded. For purposes of subparagraph (A)(i), there shall not be taken into account any deduction for any loss arising by reason of fire, storm, or other casualty, or by reason of disease or drought, involving any farming business.

(5) Application of subsection in case of partnerships and S corporations. In the case of a partnership or S corporation--

(A) this subsection shall be applied at the partner or shareholder level, and

(B) each partner's or shareholder's proportionate share of the items of income, gain, or deduction of the partnership or S corporation for any taxable year from farming businesses attributable to the partnership or S corporation, and of any applicable subsidies received by the partnership or S corporation during the taxable year, shall be taken into account by the partner or shareholder in applying this subsection to the taxable year of such partner or shareholder with or within which the taxable year of the partnership or S corporation ends.

The Secretary may provide rules for the application of this paragraph to any other pass-thru entity to the extent necessary to carry out the provisions of this subsection.

(6) Additional reporting. The Secretary may prescribe such additional reporting requirements as the Secretary determines appropriate to carry out the purposes of this subsection.

(7) Coordination with section 469. This subsection shall be applied before the application of section 469.

(k)

Farming syndicate defined.

(1) In general. For purposes of subsection (i)(4), the term "farming syndicate" means--

(A) a partnership or any other enterprise other than a corporation which is not an S corporation engaged in the trade or business of farming, if at any time interests in such partnership or enterprise have been offered for sale in any offering required to be registered with any Federal or State agency having authority to regulate the offering of securities for sale, or

(B) a partnership or any other enterprise other than a corporation which is not an S corporation engaged in the trade or business of farming, if more than 35 percent of the losses during any period are allocable to limited partners or limited entrepreneurs.

(2) Holdings attributable to active management. For purposes of paragraph (1)(B), the following shall be treated as an interest which is not held by a limited partner or a limited entrepreneur:

(A) in the case of any individual who has actively participated (for a period of not less than 5 years) in the management of any trade or business of farming, any interest in a partnership or other enterprise which is attributable to such active participation,

(B) in the case of any individual whose principal residence is on a farm, any partnership or other enterprise engaged in the trade or business of farming such farm,

(C) in the case of any individual who is actively participating in the management of any trade or business of farming or who is an individual who is described in subparagraph (A) or (B), any participation in the further processing of livestock which was raised in such trade or business (or in the trade or business referred to in subparagraph (A) or (B)),

(D) in the case of an individual whose principal business activity involves active participation in the management of a trade or business of farming, any interest in any other trade or business of farming, and,

(E) any interest held by a member of the family (or a spouse of any such member) of a grandparent of an individual described in subparagraph (A), (B), (C), or (D) if the interest in the partnership or the enterprise is attributable to the active participation of the individual described in subparagraph (A), (B), (C), or (D).

For purposes of subparagraph (A), where one farm is substituted for or added to another farm, both farms shall be treated as one farm. For purposes of subparagraph (E), the term "family" has the meaning given to such term by section 267(c)(4).

(3) Farming. For purposes of this subsection, the term "farming" has the meaning given to such term by section 464(e).

(4) Limited entrepreneur. For purposes of this subsection, the term "limited entrepreneur" means a person who --

(A) has an interest in an enterprise other than as a limited partner, and

(B) does not actively participate in the management of such enterprise.

(l)

Limitation on excess business losses of noncorporate taxpayers.

Caution: Code section 461(l)(1), prior to amendment by P.L. 117-2, 117-169, and P.L. 119-21, was effective for tax years beginning before January 1, 2027.

(1)

Limitation. In the case of a taxpayer other than a corporation--

(A)

for any taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017, and before January 1, 2029, subsection (j) (relating to limitation on excess farm losses of certain taxpayers) shall not apply, and

(B)

for any taxable year beginning after December 31, 2020, and before January 1, 2029, any excess business loss of the taxpayer for the taxable year shall not be allowed.

Caution: Code section 461(l)(1) below, as amended by P.L. 119-21, is effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2026.

(1)

Limitation. In the case of a taxpayer other than a corporation--

(A)

for any taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017, subsection (j) (relating to limitation on excess farm losses of certain taxpayers) shall not apply, and

(B)

for any taxable year beginning after December 31, 2020, any excess business loss of the taxpayer for the taxable year shall not be allowed.

(2)

Disallowed loss carryover. Any loss which is disallowed under paragraph (1) shall be treated as a net operating loss for the taxable year for purposes of determining any net operating loss carryover under section 172(b) for subsequent taxable years.

(3)

Excess business loss. For purposes of this subsection --

(A)

In general. The term "excess business loss" means the excess (if any) of --

(i)

the aggregate deductions of the taxpayer for the taxable year which are attributable to trades or businesses of such taxpayer (determined without regard to whether or not such deductions are disallowed for such taxable year under paragraph (1) and without regard to any deduction allowable under section 172 or 199A), over

(ii) the sum of --

(I) the aggregate gross income or gain of such taxpayer for the taxable year which is attributable to such trades or businesses, plus

(II) $250,000 (200 percent of such amount in the case of a joint return).

Such excess shall be determined without regard to any deductions, gross income, or gains attributable to any trade or business of performing services as an employee.

(B)

Treatment of capital gains and losses.

(i) Losses. Deductions for losses from sales or exchanges of capital assets shall not be taken into account under subparagraph (A)(i).

(ii) Gains. The amount of gains from sales or exchanges of capital assets taken into account under subparagraph (A)(ii) shall not exceed the lesser of—

(I) the capital gain net income determined by taking into account only gains and losses attributable to a trade or business, or

(II) the capital gain net income.

Caution: Code section 461(l)(3)(C), prior to amendment by P.L. 119-21, is effective for tax years beginning before January 1, 2026.

(C)

Adjustment for inflation. In the case of any taxable year beginning after December 31, 2018, the $250,000 amount in subparagraph (A)(ii)(II) shall be increased by an amount equal to --

(i) such dollar amount, multiplied by

(ii)

the cost-of-living adjustment determined under section 1(f)(3) for the calendar year in which the taxable year begins, determined by substituting "2017" for "2016" in subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof.

If any amount as increased under the preceding sentence is not a multiple of $1,000, such amount shall be rounded to the nearest multiple of $1,000.

Caution: Code section 461(l)(3)(C), as amended by P.L. 119-21, is effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2025.

(C)

Adjustment for inflation. In the case of any taxable year beginning after December 31, 2025, the $250,000 amount in subparagraph (A)(ii)(II) shall be increased by an amount equal to --

(i) such dollar amount, multiplied by

(ii)

the cost-of-living adjustment determined under section 1(f)(3) for the calendar year in which the taxable year begins, determined by substituting "2024" for "2016" in subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof.

If any amount as increased under the preceding sentence is not a multiple of $1,000, such amount shall be rounded to the nearest multiple of $1,000.

(4) Application of subsection in case of partnerships and S corporations. In the case of a partnership or S corporation --

(A) this subsection shall be applied at the partner or shareholder level, and

(B) each partner's or shareholder's allocable share of the items of income, gain, deduction, or loss of the partnership or S corporation for any taxable year from trades or businesses attributable to the partnership or S corporation shall be taken into account by the partner or shareholder in applying this subsection to the taxable year of such partner or shareholder with or within which the taxable year of the partnership or S corporation ends.

For purposes of this paragraph, in the case of an S corporation, an allocable share shall be the shareholder's pro rata share of an item.

(5) Additional reporting. The Secretary shall prescribe such additional reporting requirements as the Secretary determines necessary to carry out the purposes of this subsection.

(6) Coordination with section 469. This subsection shall be applied after the application of section 469.
